We (human beings) suffer psychological biases from these main factors:

We have very fundamental psychological tendencies that are built within us which are useful
for survival and procreation. These tendencies have been with us since a very long time ago.
And they can cause us to make mistakes in the highly competitive world of trading.

We have massive egos. This is the case to prevent us from giving up on life under extremely
depressing scenarios. However this causes us to be overconfident, to overestimate our own abilities,
and to overlook our own mistakes and shortcomings.

An example would be our discomfort with admitting that we were wrong. Especially when there
isn't sufficient evidence present. This leads some traders to be unable to take a lose, until
the lose is much bigger than necessary. Our egos are also the reason we see effects like the
anchoring effect and confirmation bias.

Our memory and perception are both great systems that have flaws. And our massive egos often
cause us to not notice our own flaws. Our memories store approximate data, with start, end,
max, and mins being remembered better than everything else in between.

One problem this can cause is the recency effect. Its clear that a big chunk of market participants
today are prisoners of the moment.

We are inherently very social. This is probably the case mainly for the purpose of procreation.
However this can cause heard like behavior. This is still very much present and going strong
among market participants today.

When we feel enough fear we become very conservative in our decision making. This is because
we want to prevent a worst case scenario which in pre-historic times can easily be death. This
would often occur in trading when losses become too large. We would air on the side of closing
out a position to prevent further losses. More often than not those decisions are unprofitable.
This is also more commonly known as 'fight or flight' response. We physiologically are different
under such scenarios. And there is also the reaction of going for broke, when individuals undertake
more risk. This is how rogue traders happen.

Knowning is only half the battle. Even knowing these psychological flaws we are still suceptable
to them. Once a person puts on a position his thinking and beliefs change in his mind in such
a way that is almost uncontrollable. I believe it happens subconsciously. Our minds are a lot
clearer before we put on a position vs. after.
