Willpower
 
What is it and how does it affect our lives.
 
Willpower is our ability to mentally put off short term desires or natural tendencies for
our longer term benefit. We have to exert willpower when we diet, when we go to bed on time,
when we refrain from playing games on our cell phones.

Making any type of decision requires mental power. The tougher the decision the more heavy
lifting our minds are doing.
 
Our natural tendencies have not evolved as much as the world around us. A prime example is
the food that we consume. A lot of what we consume has been designed to taste good even though
it’s not necessarily good for us. A lot of the aspects of our modern world that cater  to our
natural desires but are not of longer term good to our health are man made. Another prime example
is video games, this one is a bit controversial. I am of the belief that video games have very
little to zero added value and only waste our mental energy and our attention spans.
 
Willpower diminishes with fatigue from mental exertion (like stress, or too much work or studying),
fatigue from lack of sleep, any kind of emotional extreme whether happy or sad, alcohol & other
drugs, just to name a few.
 
Positive Feedback Loop
 
When we make our life goals align with elements which enhances willpower(like sleeping on time,
not drinking alcohol, not overworking ourselves mentally or physically), we create a positive
feedback loop. In this positive feedback loop we live disciplined and diligently and our lifestyle
empowers us to have greater willpower which empowers us to further adhere to our disciplines.
 
Negative Feedback Loop
 
When we begin to become undisciplined, our willpower can diminish which further reduces our
ability to continue adhering to disciplines which further diminishes willpower. This negative
feedback loop is especially apparent when a person who normally sleeps at a regular time goes
past his bedtime one night to watch the newest season of a netlix show, its not atypical for
that person to then stay up later and later as willpower diminishes from lack of sleep. Another
instance when the negative feedback loop is especially apparent is with regards to regulating
one’s alcohol intake, I’ll skip a more specific example and just mention the phrase ‘binge
drinking’.  Most of the examples of a negative feedback loop are intense but short lived.
 
Tricking Ones Mind
 
Is it possible to trick one’s mind for additional will power under adverse circumstances?
As an example a person after a tiring day’s work is at the grocery store and ponders the
purchase of some unhealthy items. Equipped with the knowledge of how willpower works, he knows
that because he is tired, he is about to make a decision when his ability to exert willpower
is low. With this information in mind will he be able to put off purchasing these unhealthy
items which he would’ve undoubtedly purchased without any sense of his current low level of
ability to exert willpower. I believe the answer to this question is yes.

Physical Exertions

There is a lot of literature out there that state that pure physical exertions do not depelete
our mental energy and thus doesn't affect our willpower. I think most physical activities
do in fact depelete our mental energy and will affect willpower, even though if we dont go
over board the affects are probably minimal.

I believe when we partake in physical activities that drive our bodies beyond what we are comfortable
with, this also deplets willpower as we are constantly making the decision to continue despite
discomfort or pain that we feel.

Also certain physical activities actually require a little bit of thinking (decision making).
Such as playing a team sport and making decisions on when to pass or shoot or how to matchup
on defense.
 
Training Willpower
 
Can willpower be increased through training? I believe the answer to this question is yes.
But am still a bit unsure what the best methods are. Hopefully more on this subject at a later
time.

After some thinking and further research I think continuously exerting one's willpower is probably
a sure way to strengthen willpower over time.

Dealing With Low Willpower

There will be moments where we are low on willpower. Sometimes its well outside of our control
like when we are suffering from the flu or other illnesses. In such times we should focus on
utilizing what willpower we do have to do what we need to do to get back on track.

Biggest Takeaway

Our willpower is limited and we have to make tough choices where to dedicate them.
