Motivation


- Intro -

As we meander through life, what are the drivers behind our voluntary actions? Strictly speaking
from life experience I believe we have two main sources of motivation. We are motivated by
immediate pleasures and longer term improvement.


- Neurotransmitters -

After reading a lot more about this subject, I believe we are primarily driven by the neurotransmitter
dopamine. There are three other neurotransmitters that also contribute and I'll first go over
them quickly:


Endorphins - Neurotransmitter that is released when we are healing from physical wounds. It
is very similar to morphine. It is also associated with tastes like salt and spiciness. I wonder
if there is a correlation between exercise junkies and having heavy taste. Have you ever heard
an exercise junky say "I haven't worked out in two days, I feel so out of shape"? I believe
he/she is actually feeling endorphins withdraw.

Oxytocin - Neurotransmitter that is associated with physical contact with a loved one. Beyond
this I wouldn't consider this neurotransmitter to be that interesting.

Serotonin - A very prevalent neurotransmitter that is associated with mood, appetite, sleep,
and memory. Its also responsible for the feeling of social well being. For example when you
are admired or looked up to by others this neurotransmitter is activated. Current understanding
of serotonin has a lot of overlap with Dopamine. In a lot of instances the distinction between
the two are not clear.


- Dopamine -

Now we get to Dopamine, which is a Kahuna of a neurotransmitter. Dopamine is very versatile
as well as very prevalent. Its often paired up with the three neurotransmitters above. This
neurotransmitter is associated with but not limited to:

  our reward system
  memory, learning, processing of new information, cognitive activities in general
  almost all immediate pleasures
  most positive emotions, including the emotions associated with friendship and love
  muscle movement
  adrenaline, risk taking

Dopamine differs from the other three neurotransmitters, we can exert some conscious control
over the conditions under which dopamine is activated in our brain. I also believe its the
main driver of our long term improvement. Dopamine is responsible for just about all voluntary
actions that do not lead to some immediate pleasure. As well as some actions that lead to immediate
pleasures.

When we perform tasks that are not immediately pleasurable like physical labour, exercise,
studying, paper work, we feel a sense of satisfaction when we complete chunks of such activities.
Dopamine is responsible for such satisfaction and is responsible for motivating us.

Dopamine is the most basic reward we give ourselves, it helps tell our brain when you’ve done
something good, and promotes our brains to remember what we did that was good and repeat to
get the reward again.

Dopamine is also released whenever we form new neurons. This includes times like when we are
learning a new subject area, when we are exposed to new environments, when we meet and get
to know new people. I also believe analytical problem solving induces Dopamine.

Dopamine is also released with adrenaline during a fight or flight response. This fact must
produce some evolutionary advantage. But I am not sure what exactly. My best guess is that
curing times when we require a fight or flight response, dopamine causes us to remember the
event more deeply and that helps a person's future survival rate. As an unintended consequence
we have thrill seekers that jump out of air planes for fun.

Dopamine is also associated with muscle movement as well as many other bodily functions. However
dopamine doesn't cross the blood/brain barrier.


- What Does It Matter -

Humans actively regulate the amount of dopamine in the brain. Excess dopamine creates a state
of euphoria that has been shown to impair judgement. Our hunger for dopamine is our primary
source of motivation, excess dopamine affects our overall motivation.

- unedited -

try, cut out excess sources of dopamine which include:
drugs, they inhibit brains ability to remove excess dopamine
video games, they are designed to trigger human reward system and quickly, dont let excess dopamine from
such activities take you away from activities that contribute to longer term goals
other guilty pleasures, like food (that taste good but are not actually high in nutritional value)

dopamine is like food, we need it but we don't want an excess and we want to have good sources and cut out
bad sources

" key in behavior, cognition, motivation and reward. In other words, it helps tell your body when you’ve done something good, and promotes our brains to remember what we did that was good and repeat to get the reward again."

is only released when something good happens and we want to commit it to memory. other factors make us feel and probably remember negative experiences. if dopamine is high, gambler is born.

dopamine food analogy

new neural pathways when you learn new things or are exposed to new environments

anything that requires a person to be more alert, also stirs up good feelings. I believe this is evolutionary. In order to be alert, to have a clear mind, have good memory, be focused, human brain produces dopamine which actually causes pleasure. I think (this is not a fact) that humans will react to elevate mental focus (and memory) when good things occur (things which trigger dopamine). Naturally we want to remember pleasurable things. However at the opposite end, when exploring new areas, or when we are in danger, we also need elevated focus, and dopamine is also produced in this case.

Its documented that dopamine is produced in the body during an adrenaline rush, however that’s different from the dopamine produced in the brain which is considered pleasurable.
motivation.txtOpen
Displaying motivation.txt.