I own a lot of these notes to http://www.swing-trade-stocks.com

technical analysis is far from an exact science

The #1 thing that affects sentiment is price itself.
At anytime random or otherwise unknown sources of supply or demand may enter the market and
affect prices. In fact just about everyone would like to do their buying or selling as secretly
and quietly as possible.

Compositions of swing points (pivots)
Compositions of swings between swing points

short term trend
intensity (volume and range)
psychology
  recent action
  price level
  fundamentals

How to enter a position with the least amount of risk. Entries are arguably much more important
than exits. Know the difference between when its fine to enter a position and when its fine
to hold an existing position but not fine to enter a position if one did not exist.

Steady decline is not fear, gap downs or otherwise violent down moves show fear. Can also be
gauged by looking at VIX. 30+ is getting dicey, and 40+ are really rare.

After a position goes in your favor, continue to gauge trend quality. For example if price
moves above a previous high pivot on higher volume, its a sign that the trend is healthy.

Trend reversal:
  trendline breaks
  retest and failure of recent high(or low)
  a new lower low(or higher high)

support and resistance are zones. Think about supply and resistance as: x is resistance, and
as prices goes higher resistance should increase.

Stocks trend a minority of the time, some say its 30%.

For the broader markets, even we laymen can attempt to factor in fundamentals, my own model:
  generational cycle
  business cycle
  sentiment cycle
  random

longer term indicators:
when vol spikes really high, might be an indication people are too long, bidding up puts during
troubled times. business cycle might be maturing.

when equity index prices lead actual company earnings, business cycle is young and most longs
are early and sharp guys. when equities is slow to react to deterioration in fundamentals, like
earnings projection decreases, business cycle might be maturing and there are a lot of novice
buying.

pure chart reading does not work on the broader markets with many participants. the most basic
technical setups will quickly get crowded. we need a little more than pure technicals, such
as a better understanding of psychology and/or a better estimate of cycles (mean reversion)
