48 laws of power

These are summaries from history, not results from psychological research. Its very important
to keep this in mind and to read this book incredulously. A lot of the examples in this book
are from medieval times. And the whole time I was reading it I felt like I was reading some
dark scripture about some dark alternate world that is not our own.


General Principles:


Actions are stronger than words, what can't be seen or felt has no value
Act confidently and bold
Act generously, but be smart(monetarily efficient) about it
Build your reputation

Emotions are fairly short term. Control your emotions. Avoid emotions like anger, jealousy,
and arrogance (arrogance leads to complacency).

Be forward thinking, as well as long term oriented. Be one step ahead of your competition, or
just others in general. Have patients and be attuned to timing.

Be versatile and adapt, do not be stubborn. Be always thinking, be creative and innovative,
do not be complacent.

Speak and appear the proper amount, too much or too little both have draw backs. Speaking
or appearing too little obviously has flaws, but speaking or appearing too much has flaws
as well. The more you speak and appear in front of others the more likely it is people will
pick at your flaws, find your weaknesses. Only speak and appear when its necessary and beneficial
to yourself.

Promote change slowly, people generally oppose change

Privileges of birth are an impediment to power. (I am not sure how much I buy this, I think
more so than privileges of birth, lack of exposure to harsh aspects of the world during development
can be an impediment to power)


Darker Ideas:


Don't show weakness. Also hide your ultimate goals and motives.
Be secretive, use deception, but be very subtle, never get caught or recognized.
Keep your hands clean of bad deeds, use pawns. If ever caught try to find scapegoats


Treating Others:


Treat different people differently. people belong in these 3 categories: ally, friend, enemy.

Ally - these are your true allies, they are every bit as interested in your success and you
are. These people are very low in number. Sometimes when the stakes are high enough even immediate
family ties are not enough. Do not put people into this category lightly. Most of the people we
interact with are in the next category.

Friend - keep most people you know in this category. Make people need you, tell them how you
can benefit them instead of how you've benefit them in the past. Find out their insecurities,
sources of unhappiness, guilty pleasures. Share secrets (not your deepest ones) with them
to gain their confidence. Act like them, be their buddy. Try to understand people's inner
workings. Do not draw envy toward yourself. Make others come to you. Use bait if necessary.
In any type of negotiation the initiator is at a disadvantage.

Enemy - this group is also small but inevitable for a person to attain high levels of success.
Make them emotional, including angry, jealous, axietious, overconfident, complacent.
(same traits that you avoid)
Ignore them, paying them attention empowers them. (But use discretion here)
Strike at their leaders(power in any organization centralizes around very few), and shoot
to kill.

Anything you do to an enemy you can also do to a friend or even an ally when the situation
necessitates it, but be secretive about it and do not get caught.

Dont make the wrong enemy

Friends can be more deceptive than enemies, friends need to be secretive in order to hurt you
to benefit themselves while enemies don't necessarily need to.


My Notes:


Deception (also employing a lot of indirection) can be very camouflaged. We would be best
served to recognize it. Dont blindly trust anyone or anything, question everything. understand
people thoroughly and their motives, if anything doesn't make sense, question their actions
(in your mind, not outwardly). However when you do this, be open to a vast array of realities,
including a reality where any suspicion you have is entirely off base.

Much of this book surround exploiting people's emotions. This can all become fruitless when
people learn how to rely on non subjective information like data)
Most of the world is not a meritocracy, which is why when people compete for limited resources
some of the above laws apply. People are making decisions and subjectivity abounds.
Some examples of pure meritocracies: lower level academia (undergraduate and below), sports.
In both of these cases strictly objective measurements are applied to gauge success and who should
be awarded a bigger prize.

Holy grail - it doesn't exist
Attention to details and improving marginally in any and every aspect is how people improve
At the most competitive levels competitions are won at the margins
