The Art Of Seduction

I only read some summaries of this book. While the contents of this book applies mostly for
women seducing men, I think some concepts apply more broadly. I will mark content I believe
is gender specific. Also this knowledge is just good to know, I am not promoting the usage
of any of these tactics.

To start off the person you are attempting to seduce is neutral to you, if they are already
partial to you, certain steps can be skipped. And if they already dislike you it might be
more efficient to skip this endeavour all together


Initial Phase:


Most people are open to being seduced, they don’t even know it.
Choose the right person, a person you are mentally stronger than, smarter than.

Approach them indirectly, subtly, don’t be found out (people don’t want to be knowingly seduced.
I think its either too big a hit to their ego, or creates distrust right off the bat). Utilize
small subtle detailed gestures instead of any direct gestures. Utilize insinuation.

Appear to be desirable, potentially creating triangles, also be subtle about this, have someone
else do your bidding there so you do not appear arrogant. Have someone else talk you up. Or advertise
the fact that you are very desirable.

Lure them with physical traits, don’t force it, keep it subtle. [gender specific]


They Are Interested:


Once your mark is interested, engage with that person, enter their spirit, learn their world,
their life, habits, enjoyments. Find out their needs, if they have a void to be filled.
Tell people what they want to hear. Make that person feel stronger, superior. [gender specific]
The seduction is spiritual as well, can’t be just physical, seduce their mind.

Isolating a person makes them much weaker

Try to create a fantasy, something much superior to reality

Once this phase is matured, grand gestures work well if they are initially resistant. When you
think your mark desires you but are unwilling to admit it. This can be thought of as a last
resort. If it does improve your objective, could be a signal to give up.


Pursuer Becomes The Pursued:


Once at a certain stage keep the seduction exciting. Start sending mixed signals to appear
more elusive, enigmatic, make people curious, keep people in suspense. Create temptation, keep
it vague and short, stir up their curiosity.

Mix pleasure with pain. Subtly stir up conflict, the conflict could be between you and your
mark, or between your mark and someone else. You then become the resolution. Since you stirred
up the conflict in the first place, resolving the situation should be within your ability.

Go as far as doing things that are dangerous, taboo, which are exciting.

Don’t be overly present, its a big negative if your mark feels relief when you are not there.


Parting:


If parting is necessary, part swiftly and suddenly, make it quick and clean.
