Most decisions are made by humans who are affected by emotions like fear and hope.

When markets revisit specific prices, the market does have a memory, and we frequently see
nonrandom action on these retests of important price levels. People remember the hopes, fears,
and pain associated with price extremes. In addition, most large-scale buying follows a more
or less predictable pattern: traders and execution algorithms alike will execute part of large
orders aggressively, and then will wait to allow the market to absorb the action before resuming
their executions. The more aggressive the buyers, the further they will lift offers and the
less they will wait between spurts of buying. This type of action, and the memory of other
traders around previous inflections, creates slight but predictable tendencies in prices.

Every edge we have, as technical traders, comes from an imbalance of buying and selling pressure.
That’s it, pure and simple. If we realize this and if we limit our involvement in the market
to those points where there is an actual imbalance, then there is the possibility of making
profits. We can sometimes identify these imbalances through the patterns they create in prices,
and these patterns can provide actual points around which to structure and execute trades.
Be clear on this point: we do not trade patterns in markets—we trade the underlying imbalances
that create those patterns. There is no holy grail in trading, but this knowledge comes close.
To understand why this is so important, it is necessary to first understand what would happen
if we tried to trade in a world where price action was purely random.

How does the market react after a large movement in one direction? If aggressive sellers are
pressing the market lower, what happens when they relax their selling pressure? Does the market
bounce back quickly, indicating that buyers are potentially interested in these depressed prices,
or does it sit quietly, resting at lower levels? How rapidly are new orders coming into the
market? Is trading one-directional, or is there more two-way, back-and-forth trading? Are price
levels reached through continuous motion, or do very large orders cause large jerks in prices?

chart is a recording of the history of the market

volatility contraction, occur at equilibrium? random, good for spoting breakouts
This pattern usually hides a complex pullback on the lower time frame, which is a three-legged
structure consisting of an initial pullback followed by a small, failed attempt to resume the
initial trend. From that second leg, the market turns down again to make another countertrend
leg that is usually approximately as long as the first one.
