Algorithmic trading is an incredibly competitive area. Successful algorithmic trading incurs
very little risk but is tough to scale. They typically execute trades that last anywhere from
seconds to hours but usually no longer than that.

The reason purely algorithmic trades don't have longer time horizon. A.I. has come a long way
but it is still not better than the best trained humans in a specific area. However computers
are faster. The longer a trade is held the smaller a computer's speed advantage gets.

Imagine a purely algorithmic strategy where trades have a longer holding period and doesn't
put on a massive number of trades. At this point if you employee an expert human trader to
monitor the output of the algorithm and overrules it when the human has strong conviction
that the algorithm isn't producing a profitable trade in this instance, you will have a system
that will beat the purely algorithmic strategy. This is only theoretical.

Some traders like to think of the entire market as their competitor. However when an algorithmic
strategy executes a quick trade, its typically picking off a few big buyers or sellers that
are sometimes unwillingly doing something slightly inefficient. And in that short time frame
the algorithmic strategy with its lightning speed is not competing with the entire market.


Notes from the 48 laws of power

these are summaries from history, not results from psychological reasearch, just keep this
in mind

action is stronger than words

create compelling spectacles
act confidently and bold, regal
act generously, but be smart about it
build your reputation
avoid emotions like anger, jealousy
control emotions as they only affect the present, be more long term focused
be forward thinking, at least one step ahead of your opponents
have patients and be attuned to timing
be secretive, use deception, but be subtle, never get caught or recognized
don't show people your hard work, only impress them with your results
understand people's inner workings
keep own hands clean, use pawns, scapegoats
dont show weakness
don't make people envy you, make them envy another enemy
dont be arrogant
adapt, be versatile, dont be stubborn or complacent
small flexible teams are more efficient
speak less - if you speak more people are more likely to pick at areas they do not agree with
also if you appear less frequently, each appearance is more valuable
play dumb
make others come to you, use bait is necessary
dont isolate your self, be out and about, be social
only isolate your deepest goals, motives, desires



treat different people differently. people belong in these 3 categories: true ally (very few
in number. sometimes family ties aren't enough to make someone your ally), enemy (also few
in number in modern times, but can be large), and frienemy.

for frienemies:

make people need you, tell them how you can benefit them from now on instead of how you've
benefited them in the past.

feed on people's need

find their insecurities, sources of unhappiness, guilty pleasures
also find people with delusions of grandeur

share secrets with others to gain their trust
act like others, act similar to them

for enemies:

make them angry, jealous, emotional in general (same traits that you avoid)
axiety, overconfidence, complacency
anything you do to an enemy you can also do to a frienemy or even ally when the situation
necessitates it, but be secretive about it and do not get caught.
ignore them, paying them attention empowers them
strike at their leaders(power in any organization centralizes around very few), and shoot
to kill

dont make the wrong enemy

dealing with money is emotional

deception (also employing a lot of indirection) - can be very camouflaged, recognize it
dont trust anyone or anything, question everything. understand people thoroughly and their
motives, if anything doesn't make sense, question their actions (in your mind, not outwardly)

no time to rest, power is ever flowing
innovate, be creative, don't be complacent
privileges of birth are an impediment to power

change slowly, people generally oppose change

friends can be more deceptive than enemies, friends need to be secretive in order to hurt you
to benefit themselves while enemies dont necessarily need to

what can't be seen or felt has no value

(exploiting people's emotions, can be fruitless when people learn how to rely on non subjective
information like data)
most of the world is not a meritocracy, which is why when people compete for limited valuable
resources some of the above laws apply. People are making decisions and subjectivity abounds.
Some examples of pure meritocracies: lower level academia (undergraduate and below), the athletes
in sports. In both of these cases strictly objective measurements are applied to gauge success.

Holy grail - doesn't exist
attention to details and improving marginally in any and every aspect is how people improve
at the most competitive levels competitions are won at the margins
